Let's talk about growing that list, cuz we
don't want it to be tiny forever, I mean,
in actual fact, your subscribers are
the best way to grow your reach, right?
You wanna encourage your subscribers
to recommend your list to others and
to feel able to recommend your services
despite them not having personally
worked with you, right?
This is a really weird one,
normal word of mouth comes from, yeah,
I've worked with this
guy he's really good.
Most of my word of mouth recommendations
come from, here's a guy I've followed for
ages he's really good, right?
Most of them haven't
even worked with me but
they still recommend me to other people,
so anything you can do to encourage your
users to start spreading the word
about you, you should absolutely do.
So how do you do that?
How do you turn your users Into advocates,
your readers into advocates,
well, connect with them, right?
Take opportunities to actually talk
with them, so you can do this in lots of
different ways, you can ask them questions
and get them to reply to you, right?
You can run surveys in your
emails from time to time,
you could start debates,
I pick controversial subjects and
let people argue it out with one
another in a in a safe environment.
I've got Slack channel where we do that,
and I'm the arbiter that says,
[INAUDIBLE] no, you've gone too far there.
[LAUGH] Ask for help, that's one of
the best ways of getting your audience to
engage with you is by going, I'm stuck
on something, can anyone help me?
It's amazing, cuz people love the idea
that after they've been getting advice
from you for ages,
suddenly they can help you.
So that's a really good way of connecting
with people, do meetups, right?
I know it sounds stupid but after a while
you'll have a few followers, right?
And okay, they might be spread
out over the world and so
you can't do a in person meet up, but
just start up a Zoom call
every two weeks over COVID.
In fact was every week when COVID
was particularly bad, we just,
on a Friday afternoon, I'd open
a Zoom call up and invite people for
my mailing list and
Slack channel and Twitter.
Come and hang out together, we've got
to know each other and it was great,
just spent a bit time together, and get
them connecting with each other as well.
So that's why I like having
a Slack channel where they can
talk to one another, cuz there's this
great thing it's stupid story, right?
Let's say, I give a really silly example
of this cuz it's more entertaining,
doing it this way.
Imagine we went out after this, we all
went out, we went to the pub, right?
We're sitting in the pub together,
and we're chatting and getting to know
one another, and I turn around and
I say, I collect paper clips, right?
Now, by this stage, you've had a couple
of pints you're quite relaxed with me,
I know, maybe not cuz you're
nicer than British people, but
I know you will mercilessly tease me for
that.
I mean, who collects paperclips, right?
And so I'm then gonna get a bit shy and a
bit embarrassed that I clicked paper clips
and I'm not gonna talk about it anymore.
Now imagine the same scenario, but
when I say I collect paper clips,
Mark goes, you don't so do I, and
then we start infusing together about
how cool it is to collect paper clips.
Now that's changed the dynamic all of
a sudden, we're reinforcing one another,
and you too was sitting there going,
well perhaps paper clips are cool?
I don't know,
am I missing something in here?
And that's what happens when you
connect your followers to one another,
they start reinforcing each other going,
I like Paul's work too, yeah,
I find him inspiring.
Fact that everybody finds me
inspiring just makes me giggle but
I do get emails like that, so yeah,
they reinforce one another and it's great.
So connecting users to one another,
you building their relationship is really
important, the other thing
I do a lot is I try and
show my appreciation to
those people that follow me.
I'm thanking people all the time,
I do giveaways, so,
if ever I get offered free stuff,
I get a lot of people write to me and
go, we want you to try out
this cool new app or whatever.
And so, which will happen as you get
a bit of an audience, and these days,
I say, no, but
I'll give it away to somebody else, right?
It's great, free stuff for
people there on my mail list, why not?
The other thing I do sometimes
is random acts of kindness, so
if I got a bit of spare time,
which doesn't happen that often, but
I'll drop out one of my mails also emails.
I'll say, I've got bits free time,
anybody need any help with
anything free a charge, all right?
And you'd think you'd getting inundated
with people going, yeah, yeah, but
you don't, people very
sheepishly write to you and go,
if you can spare me just a few minutes
to do this, and it's like, why not?
Why not help them out?
It's a nice thing to do, and then just
asking people how you can do better?
What do they want help with?
What are they struggling with?
How can you be there for them?
So you can do that, and then finally, once
you've done those things, then you can
start encouraging referrals cuz you kind
of built a bit of social credit with them.
So you make your newsletter easy for
sharing for start, so,
that's why all of my newsletter emails,
also make available as blog posts so
that people can easily share
them with other people.
You can do things or
offer commission and stuff,
I'm not a massive fan of the idea of
commissions and if they refer people.
But you can offer them something in
return, maybe, I've tried that before,
but anything really, but
then oftentimes I just asked politely,
can you help me out,
I'm really trying to grow the list.
One of my favorites of all time that
I did [LAUGH] I can't believe I did
this on my list but
they were brilliant over it,
I wrote this is about honesty and
personality.
I wrote an email that said,
I'm coming up to the end of the month and
I really wanna buy myself a new camera,
right?
But my wife has told
me I'm not allowed it,
unless I get over our agreed
target by the value of the camera,
and I'm sure 800 pounds or
whatever it was.
Anybody willing to hire me for
800 [LAUGH] pounds so
I could meet the target and
people did, right?
They contacted me and said,
I'll take a couple of hours or
an hour's worth of consultancy or
whatever, different things I did.
Just from being honest and
asking nicely and
with humanity rather than
being some sales bot.
And then also you can occasionally, and
you got to word this in the right way, but
you can ask people well,
why don't you recommend me?
Am I doing something wrong?
Is there something I
could be doing better?
But you have to ask that in
a non accusatory way [LAUGH]
you sound like a bit of an ass.
Right, but obviously, there are loads
of other ways that you can build your
list beyond just passively waiting for
your followers to refer you.
You can do those search engine
optimized blog posts I talked about,
you do the webinars we've discussed,
you can do speaking podcast
guests that's a really good one.
There's loads of podcasts,
they're constantly looking for
guests, you've got something
good to talk about, why not?
You could do more cold emailing, you
could reach out to people individually,
don't do bulk emails, don't buy a list or
anything stupid like that.
But if there are a few people you
encounter that you really would like to
connect with, that's okay.
There's obviously your social media,
there's community engagement as well,
getting involved in things like that
higher education mailing list I mentioned,
LinkedIn or Google Ads.
Now they're a little bit more worthwhile
considering because you've got a call
to action that isn't just by me,
it's signed up for my mailing list so
you can nurture that relationship,
promote the report, etc.
Guest posts, obviously I've talked about,
you could decide, okay,
I'm done with that sector,
I'm not getting any further,
let's try a different sector and
repeat the whole process.
And then finally you can do
the going generic approach, so
I'm kinda now at the stage where I've
built my profile enough that is that
I've got the sectors I
particularly target.
But I do allow people to sign up
to my newsletter just Willy Nally
not through a specific landing page or
from a specific sector.
So a lot of my growth now actually
just comes from people stumbling
across me through various means and
not through a specific campaign.
But I would leave you with this
when it comes to growing your list,
don't abandon a sector too soon.
I see a lot of people kinda giving up
before just before they're about to make
it, and it's frustrating to watch, and
really it comes down to monitoring
what works and what doesn't.
So, for example, I'll be honest with
you guys that like I said at the end,
you will go to a landing page
to get the slides from today and
you can see an example
of the landing page.
Landing pages I build on screen
now through Convert Kit, and
I'll pay attention, right?
So I'll look, how many did the finding
clients course lead people to sign up for
my mailing list?
And that wasn't as successful
as the design processes course,
i'll probably focus on that
one a little bit more.
Or hey front end masters is a really
good way of reaching people with a that
leads to a lot of people signing up for
my mailing list.
[INAUDIBLE] Grovel to Mark and see if I
can persuade him to let me do another
course, things like that so really pay
attention to what works and what doesn't.
So you're not wasting your time on
channels that don't really take
you anywhere.
And I think it's important that
we've kind of just before we move on
to turning all of this
into an actual business,
that we just look at remembering
that ultimately that ongoing Emails.
That you're sending out every two
weeks needs to be appropriate to
a broader audience than just your
initial group that you targeted,
so you're gonna need to
segment your audience, right?
So what do I mean by that?
Well, for example, have separate forms,
so if you've got a landing page for
charities, you'll have a separate
landing page for higher education,
a separate landing page for whatever else.
Heritage, whatever sectors, and so
each one is gonna have its own
different landing page and
you can tag people based on which landing
pages you know which sector they're from.
So that allows you to kind
of segment your audience,
the other ways you can just ask people.
As I said earlier, on my own signup form,
I actually have a drop down list
that says, do you work in house?
Do you work as part of an agency or
are you a freelancer?
Because I tend to customize my content
a little bit around those different
audiences.
And the final thing I do is I actually
watch people not in a creepy stalkiry way,
but I will know what they've clicked on,
for example in an email.
So what I can do is based
on what they click on,
I will tag them with different subjects.
So if they're always looking at design
content, then I tagged them as probably
being designers and they might get some
customized content more specific to them.
In terms of how you actually
then customize their experience,
how is it different?
Well, it's a couple of different ways,
one is they get different on boarding.
So for example, that the email course that
somebody from charities receives will
be different from the email course, that
somebody from higher education receives.
But also I will vary my emails
every once in a while as well, so
basically that the emails might
get tailored based on their
different interests or segmentations.
You could do that really easily with
an if statement [LAUGH] basically in
Convert Kit, so this statement says if
you know a designer then write this,
if it's anyone else they get this.
So it's a really kind of easy way of just
being able to tailor those emails just
a little bit, normally it's only one or
two paragraphs is different and
they're basically
the same other than that.
So that's it really, that's how you
grow your list, if you're feeling super
enthusiastic, you could take your
marketing to the next level.
But this is for further down the line, but
I'll just throw it in here anyway to give
you something to aim
towards in the future.
First thing I would say is get organized,
dedicate regular time to marketing and
get better at tracking what works and
what doesn't.
Start using a B testing, which I think
you mentioned at one point, an experiment
to monitor the results and things like
that, in terms of dedicated time.
I'm now at the position,
you can get yourself into a virtuous
cycle if you get it right, so
the more time you spend marketing
the more people you attract
the higher your rates you can charge.
Because you only need to convert
a small percentage of them, which means
the higher your rates are, the less hours
you have to do with chargeable clients.
Which allows more time for
marketing and you go round and
round in circles, so my for example,
I'm in a situation now where
my business is based on me
charging out phony 50% of my time.
So that means the other 50% time, I can
either use for doing boring admin stuff,
for marketing, or sitting around on
the beach if I really want to, but
I tend to just pump it
more into marketing.
Be more ambitious work on bigger projects,
eventually if you can churn
out a few of these reports and
you're feeling more confident in your
writing, you might wanna look at books.
You might wanna look at video courses or
workshops, these are really good
at raising your profile because they've
got higher barrier to entry, right?
They're harder to do,
fewer people do them,
therefore they're considered more
valuable, and then price higher, right?
As you see more work don't necessarily
just start hiring more people,
which is what everybody
instinctively wants to do.
Instead raise your prices instead,
that allows more time for marketing and
leads to that virtuous
cycle I was talking about.
So let's do a quick summary of that and
then we'll take our last
break before we are done.
So growing your audience,
your checklist for this,
includes setting aside regular
time to focus on marketing, so
you're putting out your marketing
material regularly, Friday afternoons.
Let's go to one with me, keep a list of
possible topics that you can write about,
so that you're not starting
from a blank sheet every time.
Don't be afraid to be yourself in your
emails, you are an amazing precious
snowflake that's got something
unique to bring to the world.
And I say that dripping with irony but
at the same time I do totally mean
it from a marketing point of view.
Experiment to find the best way of adding
more people to your list some things will
work better than others and
don't be afraid to dump
something if it doesn't work.
I'd podcast for
16 years and then went, no,
this isn't working anymore and
stopped, right?
Create a way for your audience to start
talking to one another and sharing, and
consider alternatives and
be more ambitious in your marketing
approach as you gain more confidence.